README.md, before:

<!-- comment out
# Zoran Topic

 Since very early age i was interested in programming but life is upredictable, we often step on a very different path. Charmed by shiny lights, fine music and fine drinks i decided that bartending is a career for me. Wrong! True passion was growing inside me, from small little spark my inside was boiling until it bursted in flames. Point of no return.
 
 ## Skills and interests

 ![Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linux-FCC624?style=for-the-badge&logo=linux&logoColor=black) ![Shell Script](https://img.shields.io/badge/shell_script-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=gnu-bash&logoColor=white) ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54) ![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/git-%23F05033.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/github-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white) ![Postgres](https://img.shields.io/badge/postgres-%23316192.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white) ![Oracle](https://img.shields.io/badge/Oracle-F80000?style=for-the-badge&logo=oracle&logoColor=white) ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/mysql-%2300f.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white) ![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E) ![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) ![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/express.js-%23404d59.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=%2361DAFB) ![Next JS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=next.js&logoColor=white)

Young, naive and overconfident. Now, 36 years of age, frustrated but highly motivated. I thought success will come by default but was wrong. I always felt confident with skills and value i offer to my employee. bartender since 2005 till now. and i was sure i am a good one. but after my 30 birthday i started to question. somehow i realized i have other skills and interests that none of my colleagues have. In more than a decade of my bartending None of my work buddies. few more years have passed and i am now sure i am different. i just don’t fit into the stereotype.

Started to wonder. who am i actually? Searching for a natural talent. Some was born as warriors, some as musicians and others as clowns. Who am i? Answer was in front of me every single day. What you do in your free time? That is a perfect career for you, if you can make it. Ever since high school technology was around me. While most of my friends just play the games. I always tried to find how mechanics work? How damage is calculated? How to get highest value with a minimal effort. And just like that my head bulb was lit. I love code, i love exploiting the system rules to get optimal results. never really a math guy but mechanics and background operations.

With my first lines of code in i got access to simplified interface. Everything can be done with a few mouse clicks. I had the urge to learn how all those components actually work. Launch the terminal and learn git, learn bash and linux scripting… like puzzles connecting the dots and forming a picture. Backend web development is my perfect fit. Then came machine learning, artificial intelligence and big data, all those really interesting stuff years ahead of me. Currently to high above my level. With 36 i think i am now more than ready to take that bite.

I am very passionate about it. Often short on time, having a full time job as a bartender, those moments in front of the screen with all tools loaded makes me really excited. Python is my first love and programming language where i am most comfortable. I enjoy doing coding challenges, practicing and learning every single day. I hope to find a job this year and finally prove that it's never late to pursue your dreams. Alongside python, i am learning javascript, html and css as i see them as a fundamental web technologies. Web apps are probably the easiest entry through the rabbit hole, my cheapest ticket for the high class. Start with web than find another road, small secret passage to AI and machine learning. I am a big fan of command line, always trying to look behind the screen and cool graphics, learn how mechanics in the background operates, how and who pulls the strings.

end of comment-->

![views-count](https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?base=20&username=morphzg&color=blue)

## Skills and interests

 ![Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linux-FCC624?style=for-the-badge&logo=linux&logoColor=black) ![Shell Script](https://img.shields.io/badge/shell_script-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=gnu-bash&logoColor=white) ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54) ![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/git-%23F05033.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/github-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white) ![Postgres](https://img.shields.io/badge/postgres-%23316192.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white) ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-%234ea94b.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white) ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/mysql-%2300f.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white) ![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E) ![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) ![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/express.js-%23404d59.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=%2361DAFB) ![Vue.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/vuejs-%2335495e.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=vuedotjs&logoColor=%234FC08D)

## Repositories

Check out my [open source repositories](https://github.com/MorphZG?tab=repositories)

## Online courses

### Harvard university CS50

Repository link: [cs50course](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/cs50course)  
Introduction to the intellectual enterprises of computer science and the art of programming. This course teaches students how to think algorithmically and solve problems efficiently. Topics include abstraction, algorithms, data structures, encapsulation, resource management, security, software engineering, and web programming. Languages include C, Python, and SQL plus HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

### 100 Days of Code: The Complete Python Pro Bootcamp for 2022

Repository link: [100_days_of_code](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/python_learning/100_days_of_code)  
Master Python by building 100 projects in 100 days. Learn data science, automation, build websites, games and apps. Through 100 days you will work with libraries like Selenium, Beautiful Soup, Requests, Flask, Pandas, NumPy, Scikit Learn, Plotly and Matplotlib.  

### App brewery - Web development bootcamp

Repository link: [app_brewery web_development_bootcamp](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/app_brewery%20web_development_bootcamp)
The complete full-stack web development bootcamp with HTML 5, CSS 3, Javascript ES6, Bootstrap 4, JQuery, Node.js, MongoDB and more!

### Freecodecamp

- [Responsive web design](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/freecodecamp/responsive%20web%20design)
- [Relational database certification](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/freecodecamp/relational%20database)
- [Scientific computing with python](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/freecodecamp/scientific%20computing%20with%20python)  
- [Javascript algorithms and data structures](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/freecodecamp/javascript%20algorithms%20and%20data%20structures) 

## Books

### Python crash course by Eric Matthes

Repository link: [python crash course](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/python_learning/book%20python%20crash%20course)  
Use powerful Python libraries and tools, including Pygame, Matplotlib, Plotly, and Django - Make 2D games that respond to keypresses and mouse clicks, and that increase in difficulty - Use data to generate interactive visualizations - Create and customize web apps and deploy them safely online - Deal with mistakes and errors so you can solve your own programming problems  

### Automate the boring stuff with python by Al Sweigart

Repository link: [automate_the_boring_stuff](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/python_learning/book%20automate_the_boring_stuff)  
- Search for text in a file or across multiple files
- Create, update, move, and rename files and folders
- Search the Web and download online content
- Update and format data in Excel spreadsheets of any size
- Split, merge, watermark, and encrypt PDFs
- Send reminder emails and text notifications
- Fill out online forms
 
<!--- ### Learn python 3 the hard way Repository link: []() --->  
<!--- comment languages: python, sql, javascript, node.js... Knowledge of different linux distributions and protocols, bash shell scripting, SSH, SFTP, PGP encryption docker and cloud services like aws Algorithms, data structures --->  
<!--- comment Awesome GitHub Profile README https://github.com/abhisheknaiidu/awesome-github-profile-readme --->  
<!--- markdown badges taken from: https://github.com/Ileriayo/markdown-badges/ more styles available --->  
<!--- profile icons if you search github for some topic you will get search results with topic icon copy image link and you can paste it here ![name](link) --->  
<!--- nerdfont icons https://www.nerdfonts.com/ --->

Commit message:

add link to learn_code monorepo

README.md, after:

<!-- comment out
# Zoran Topic

 Since very early age i was interested in programming but life is upredictable, we often step on a very different path. Charmed by shiny lights, fine music and fine drinks i decided that bartending is a career for me. Wrong! True passion was growing inside me, from small little spark my inside was boiling until it bursted in flames. Point of no return.
 
 ## Skills and interests

 ![Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linux-FCC624?style=for-the-badge&logo=linux&logoColor=black) ![Shell Script](https://img.shields.io/badge/shell_script-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=gnu-bash&logoColor=white) ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54) ![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/git-%23F05033.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/github-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white) ![Postgres](https://img.shields.io/badge/postgres-%23316192.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white) ![Oracle](https://img.shields.io/badge/Oracle-F80000?style=for-the-badge&logo=oracle&logoColor=white) ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/mysql-%2300f.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white) ![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E) ![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) ![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/express.js-%23404d59.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=%2361DAFB) ![Next JS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Next-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=next.js&logoColor=white)

Young, naive and overconfident. Now, 36 years of age, frustrated but highly motivated. I thought success will come by default but was wrong. I always felt confident with skills and value i offer to my employee. bartender since 2005 till now. and i was sure i am a good one. but after my 30 birthday i started to question. somehow i realized i have other skills and interests that none of my colleagues have. In more than a decade of my bartending None of my work buddies. few more years have passed and i am now sure i am different. i just don’t fit into the stereotype.

Started to wonder. who am i actually? Searching for a natural talent. Some was born as warriors, some as musicians and others as clowns. Who am i? Answer was in front of me every single day. What you do in your free time? That is a perfect career for you, if you can make it. Ever since high school technology was around me. While most of my friends just play the games. I always tried to find how mechanics work? How damage is calculated? How to get highest value with a minimal effort. And just like that my head bulb was lit. I love code, i love exploiting the system rules to get optimal results. never really a math guy but mechanics and background operations.

With my first lines of code in i got access to simplified interface. Everything can be done with a few mouse clicks. I had the urge to learn how all those components actually work. Launch the terminal and learn git, learn bash and linux scripting… like puzzles connecting the dots and forming a picture. Backend web development is my perfect fit. Then came machine learning, artificial intelligence and big data, all those really interesting stuff years ahead of me. Currently to high above my level. With 36 i think i am now more than ready to take that bite.

I am very passionate about it. Often short on time, having a full time job as a bartender, those moments in front of the screen with all tools loaded makes me really excited. Python is my first love and programming language where i am most comfortable. I enjoy doing coding challenges, practicing and learning every single day. I hope to find a job this year and finally prove that it's never late to pursue your dreams. Alongside python, i am learning javascript, html and css as i see them as a fundamental web technologies. Web apps are probably the easiest entry through the rabbit hole, my cheapest ticket for the high class. Start with web than find another road, small secret passage to AI and machine learning. I am a big fan of command line, always trying to look behind the screen and cool graphics, learn how mechanics in the background operates, how and who pulls the strings.

end of comment-->

![views-count](https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?base=20&username=morphzg&color=blue)

## Skills and interests

 ![Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Linux-FCC624?style=for-the-badge&logo=linux&logoColor=black) ![Shell Script](https://img.shields.io/badge/shell_script-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=gnu-bash&logoColor=white) ![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3670A0?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=ffdd54) ![Git](https://img.shields.io/badge/git-%23F05033.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=git&logoColor=white) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/github-%23121011.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=github&logoColor=white) ![Postgres](https://img.shields.io/badge/postgres-%23316192.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white) ![MongoDB](https://img.shields.io/badge/MongoDB-%234ea94b.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mongodb&logoColor=white) ![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/mysql-%2300f.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white) ![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript-%23323330.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E) ![NodeJS](https://img.shields.io/badge/node.js-6DA55F?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white) ![Express.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/express.js-%23404d59.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=express&logoColor=%2361DAFB) ![Vue.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/vuejs-%2335495e.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=vuedotjs&logoColor=%234FC08D)

## Repositories

Check out my [open source repositories](https://github.com/MorphZG?tab=repositories)

## Online courses

Repository link: [learn_code](https://github.com/MorphZG/learn_code) monorepo
There is a single monorepository for all the projects i did through various courses. I did my best to document the process of learning. Every project have a well written readme file, not only as a set of instructions but more as a learning material with the breakdown of important concepts i was trying to remember.


### Harvard university CS50

Repository link: [cs50course](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/cs50course)  
Introduction to the intellectual enterprises of computer science and the art of programming. This course teaches students how to think algorithmically and solve problems efficiently. Topics include abstraction, algorithms, data structures, encapsulation, resource management, security, software engineering, and web programming. Languages include C, Python, and SQL plus HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.

### 100 Days of Code: The Complete Python Pro Bootcamp for 2022

Repository link: [100_days_of_code](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/python_learning/100_days_of_code)  
Master Python by building 100 projects in 100 days. Learn data science, automation, build websites, games and apps. Through 100 days you will work with libraries like Selenium, Beautiful Soup, Requests, Flask, Pandas, NumPy, Scikit Learn, Plotly and Matplotlib.  

### App brewery - Web development bootcamp

Repository link: [app_brewery web_development_bootcamp](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/app_brewery%20web_development_bootcamp)
The complete full-stack web development bootcamp with HTML 5, CSS 3, Javascript ES6, Bootstrap 4, JQuery, Node.js, MongoDB and more!

### Freecodecamp

- [Responsive web design](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/freecodecamp/responsive%20web%20design)
- [Relational database certification](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/freecodecamp/relational%20database)
- [Scientific computing with python](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/freecodecamp/scientific%20computing%20with%20python)  
- [Javascript algorithms and data structures](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/freecodecamp/javascript%20algorithms%20and%20data%20structures) 

## Books

### Python crash course by Eric Matthes

Repository link: [python crash course](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/python_learning/book%20python%20crash%20course)  
Use powerful Python libraries and tools, including Pygame, Matplotlib, Plotly, and Django - Make 2D games that respond to keypresses and mouse clicks, and that increase in difficulty - Use data to generate interactive visualizations - Create and customize web apps and deploy them safely online - Deal with mistakes and errors so you can solve your own programming problems  

### Automate the boring stuff with python by Al Sweigart

Repository link: [automate_the_boring_stuff](https://github.com/MorphZG/Learn-code/tree/main/python_learning/book%20automate_the_boring_stuff)  
- Search for text in a file or across multiple files
- Create, update, move, and rename files and folders
- Search the Web and download online content
- Update and format data in Excel spreadsheets of any size
- Split, merge, watermark, and encrypt PDFs
- Send reminder emails and text notifications
- Fill out online forms
 
<!--- ### Learn python 3 the hard way Repository link: []() --->  
<!--- comment languages: python, sql, javascript, node.js... Knowledge of different linux distributions and protocols, bash shell scripting, SSH, SFTP, PGP encryption docker and cloud services like aws Algorithms, data structures --->  
<!--- comment Awesome GitHub Profile README https://github.com/abhisheknaiidu/awesome-github-profile-readme --->  
<!--- markdown badges taken from: https://github.com/Ileriayo/markdown-badges/ more styles available --->  
<!--- profile icons if you search github for some topic you will get search results with topic icon copy image link and you can paste it here ![name](link) --->  
<!--- nerdfont icons https://www.nerdfonts.com/ --->
